---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                1

     DENNIS MCNAMARA:  Thank you to Commissioner Selig.  My name

is Dennis McNamara, and I'd like to thank Jane Forbes Clark and

Jeff Idelson, the Hall of Famers and baseball dignitaries here

today.  Also, congratulations to the families of Jacob Rupert

and Deacon White, and our numerous honorees.  Hello to baseball

supporters everywhere.

     Why is some guy named Dennis McNamara standing up here?

Because I'm the oldest living decedent of my granduncle Hank

O'Day who's now inducted into the National Baseball Hall of

Fame.  I'd really like now to yell out "Take me out to the ball

game" but I'll behave myself.

     I wonder, what does all this mean?  It means everyone is

recognized at some point.  You may not know it, but recognition

does come, perhaps quietly in your every-day life or yes,

sometimes a great honor which Hank O'Day is now receiving

posthumously 86 years after he finished his long career as an

umpire.  Persevere, for you too are or will be recognized.

     The O'Day story is a tale of Chicago where Hank lived his

entire life.  He was born on 1859 to deaf parents who were Irish

immigrants on the west side of the city.  It was farm country in

those years before the Civil War.  His extended family is still

in Chicago, a real baseball hotbed.  It has two teams with rich

histories and has been home to fabulous players such as Banks,

Williams, Jenkins, Appling, Fox, Aparacio, Fisk, Double-Duty and

my late friend Ron Santo.  It was my pleasure to introduce
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                2

Ronnie to his wife Vickie, who made that beautiful speech last

year.

     Chicago had Comiskey Park, still has Wrigley Field,

fireworks at US Cellular Field and the planned Chicago baseball

museum which has the Jerome Holtzman library.  We have a future

Hall of Famer in White Sox Chairman Jerry Reinsdorf and a Cubs

chairman, Tom Ricketts, who is very committed.  We love our

teams even if it took the Sox 88 years to win another World

Series and the Cubs are now 105 years and counting.  Hey, as

Hall of Fame broadcaster Jack Brickhouse said, "Anybody can have

a bad century."

     So who was this Hank O'Day?  I bet few know he was not only

a Hall of Fame umpire but also an accomplished Major League

pitcher starting in 1884.  Yes, that's 1884.  He also managed

the Cincinnati Reds and Chicago Cubs.  He was the first native

Chicagoan to skipper the Cubs.  He's the only man in the history

of the National League to play, manage and umpire in full

seasons, all during an outstanding five decades in the game.

     Uncle Hank first threw his wicked fastball on the Chicago

sand lots, and his seven seasons of playing included a

spectacular performance for the 1989 World's championship.  In

that series he had an ERA of 1.17 in 23 innings pitched.  Not

bad.  He earned two victories.  Not bad.  The following season,

won 22 games before his arm gave out.  Not bad.

     But my granduncle made his biggest impact as an umpire.  In
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                3

1895, he was working as a Cook County Clerk.  We Irish knew how

to get those county jobs even back then.  Baseball's brass

remembered Hank O'Day had filled in as an umpire years ago and

they called him to replace an injured ump.  It was a much

different time.  Foul because were not strikes, ground-rule

doubles were home runs.  Can you believe this?  Only one umpire

covered the entire field.  The owners refused to hire a second

man.  Finally, by the time Uncle Hank retired in 1927, two

umpires worked each game.  Wow, what big spenders those owners

were.

     Hank O'Day umpired a then-record ten World Series,

including the first modern classic in 1903.  Umpires had too

often been victims of violence, and Uncle Hank was instrumental

in taking umpires out of the dark ages.  He got all umps the

respect and security they needed.

     The man was known for his remarkable skill of accurately

calling balls and strikes, and for his unrelenting honesty and

integrity.  Back then, home teams won a surprising 61 percent of

the time.  The lone umpire may have been intimidated by the

local crowd, but not Hank O'Day.  Cleveland's manager remarked,

"I hate to see O'Day in my home park, but I'm delighted when

he's in charge and we're the road team."  Honesty and integrity

led Uncle Hank to the Hall of Fame.

     Hank O'Day's famous moment came when he voided the apparent

Giants victory over the Cubs in the infamous Merkle game in
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                                                4

1908.  That suspended game kept the Cubs alive in the pennant

race and they would win their last World Series.  Though he was

from Chicago, no one questioned O'Day.  They knew his only

motive was to get the call right.  In fact, what wasn't known

was that he had umpired a game with the same situation only a

few weeks earlier and was told by the National League that a key

base running rule had to be enforced in the future, which he did

in the Merkle game.  His decision has stood the test of time for

over a century.

     Honesty and integrity make any effort great regardless of

the profession.  I was a Chicago police officer for 29 years and

I've always been mindful of judges, police officers and the city

officials who put their reputations on the line each day with

unpopular calls to enforce the rules and laws of our society.

     Uncle Hank died seven years before I was born, and

yesterday was my 70th birthday and my 39th anniversary, my

wedding anniversary.  Uncle Hank died seven years before I was

born but he was an almost mythic figure in our family, and his

example guided me as a policeman.  It helped future decendents

too.  We count among us those who also work in transportation,

at advertising, business, education, dining and entertainment.

My daughter Katie has been with the Harry Caray's group for

19 years.  Harry Caray.  How appropriate.

     The lesson of Hank O'Day is do your best with honesty and

integrity.  It is a lesson known to these Hall of Famers behind
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                                                5

me and one that might be in the minds of some players not

elected.  It will bring to this wonderful destination next year

players who did value honesty and integrity such as our stars

from Chicago:  Frank Thomas, Greg Maddux.  Hopefully Minnie

Minoso will join them via the veteran's committee.

     Hank O'Day's grandnephew, my brother Rick, is here today as

are Hank's great-grandnieces, my daughters Katie, Jodi, Traci,

Christi, granddaughter Maggie, grandson John.  And of course my

loving wife Carol.  I thank them all for living the ideal begun

by our distant relative.

     Thanks to the dedicated women and men of the Hall of Fame

for everything, and I mean everything -- they got it from A to

Z.  You wouldn't believe how it works -- they've done since the

voting was announced and to the long-time Chicago sportscaster

with a passion for this stuff, Tom Shaer, for all his help.

Most of all, the descendents of Uncle Hank are grateful to the

greatest game, baseball, and to its leadership under

Commissioner Selig for taking Major League baseball to new

heights of popularity, integrity and overall health.

     In closing, I urge everyone to visit the National Baseball

Hall of Fame and Museum because this is the game's magnificent

destination for professionals and fans.  Here are the best of

the best, and I shall always be humbled by the fact that my

granduncle Hank O'Day is among them.  This is a place of

tradition.  Baseball respects tradition.  Hank O'Day and his
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                                                6

family have held that tradition true, and I thank you very much.

                         - - - - -
