---------------------Page 1---------------------

               July 27, 2014 

                                                                                             

                                                               I'd  like  to  take  an  extra  minute  to  thank 
                                                       Greg and Bobby.  It's hard to imagine as I've said 
           TOM GLAVINE                                 over  and  over  that  a  day  like  this  could  get  any 
                                                       better.  But for me, it does.  
                                                               To have the opportunity to go into the Hall 
        TOM GLAVINE:  My first order of miss that   of Fame with these two guys, two guys that had 
everybody told me when you get up here, just take   such a profound impact on me as a person and on 
a deep breath.  So, okay, I'm good.  What an honor   my    career,    Bobby    from    the   managerial    side 
and privilege it is to be here as an inductee to the   teaching me to respect the game, teaching me how 
Baseball   Hall   of   Fame.      I   want   to   thank   the   to play the game the right way, how to go about my 
baseball writers for voting for me.  I want to thank   business and represent my organization.  
Jane   Forbes   Clark,   Jeff   Idelson,   Brad   Horn,        And  I  can't  tell  you,  I  like  old  Smoltzie's 
Whitney Selover, and all the folks at the Baseball   word in that video, I can't tell you how good he was 
Hall   of   Fame   for   making   this   an   unbelievable   at pumping you up all the time.  I can't tell you how 
experience for me and my family.                       many times I would pitch a bad game and read the 
        Little did I know as a kid, when I used to   newspaper    the    next    day    and    read    Bobby's 
think  it  was  a  good  idea,  to  stand  on  the  front   comments, and I would think, what game were you 
porch  of  my  parents  house  and  throw  snowballs   watching, and how did I not win.  
over the trees trying to hit the cars passing by, little       Bobby,  thank  you  so  much  for  all  your 
did I know how far my left arm was going to take   guidance, appreciate everything you did for me.  
me at that time.                                               Greg, as a teammate and as a friend, you 
        Needless to say, there was one passersby   made me better through our conversations.  You 
that was less than pleased with my accuracy.  He   made  me  better  by  watching  you  pitch,  and  you 
had  a  conversation  with  my  mom,  the  ‘wait  until   made  me  wealthier  with  all  the  money  we  took 
your dad gets home’ scenario played out, and after   from Smoltzie on the golf course.  
a  good  talking  to,  needless  to  say,  my  snowball        We all have choices to make in life, and in 
throwing days were over.                               June  of  1984,  I  was  an  18-year-old  kid  enjoying 
        We  all  figured  I  could  come  up  with  a   high   school   graduation   and   looking   forward   to 
better,   more   productive   way   to   work   on   my   going to college.  Within a span of a couple weeks, 
accuracy, so.  I think that was probably the start of   I had the good fortune of being drafted by the Los 
the  painted  square  of  the  chimney  outside  my   Angeles Kings in the NHL and the Atlanta Braves.  
parents house.                                         I   had   a   difficult   choice   to   make   and   as   a 
        I'm honored to go into the Baseball Hall of   left-handed  pitcher,  I  thought  that  was  the  thing 
Fame  with  such  a  great  group  of  men:    Frank   that  would  set  me  apart  and  make  baseball  the 
Thomas, Joe Torre, Tony La Russa, and of course   smartest decision.  
my    long-time    teammate    and    manager,    Greg         Of  course  I  always  wonder  what  would 
Maddux and Bobby Cox.  All of you guys represent   have happened had I taken up hockey and in my 
what  is  great  about  the  game  of  baseball.   With   mind, of course, since I was drafted ahead of two 
your  competitiveness,  it's  no  surprise  you  are  all   Hall of Famers, Luc Robitaille and Brett Hull, that 
here today.  Congratulations to all of you guys.  I'm   obviously  means  I  would  have  been  a  Hall  of 
humbled to be part of this class with you.             Famer in hockey, too (Laughter).  

                                                                                                                1  
                                         
    visit our archives at asapsports.com 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

        But  clearly,  I'm  positive  I  made  the  right   helpful  and  did  everything  you  could  to  get  me 
choice,  as  sure  as  I'm  standing  here,  and  like  I   back out there and for that I appreciate it.  
said,  I'm  honored  to  be  here  and  be  part  of  the      Same holds true, Mike Herbst, the trainer 
Baseball Hall of Fame.                                 with the New York Mets when I was there.  Thank 
        Seems hard to believe, it's been 30 years   you for all your time and your efforts to keep me 
since I sat at my parents kitchen and signed my   healthy and keep me on the field. 
professional  contract  to  go  play  for  the  Atlanta                I had a couple goals in mind each 
Braves.    Sitting  with  me  there  that  day,  Tony   time   I   put   on   the   uniform.      The   first   was   to 
Demacio  and  Paul  Snyder  from  the  Braves  saw   represent the logo on the front.  That meant to play 
something in me that compelled them to convince   hard, play the game the right way and give it your 
the Braves to take a chance on me.  I doubt they   all whenever you stepped on the field.  As the old 
projected  me   as   a   future   Hall   of   Famer   but   saying goes, play hard because  you never know 
nonetheless   they   saw   enough   to   give   me   a   who is watching you for the first time. 
chance, and for that, Paul, Tony, thank you very               The second part was to not embarrass the 
much.                                                  name  on  the  back.    I  wanted  to  represent  my 
        Perhaps  part  of  what  they  saw  was  that   parents to the best of my ability.  They worked hard 
the work ethic that was certainly prevalent in my   to  respect  our  community  and  I  wanted  to  do 
house     and     in     my     hometown     of     Billerica,   everything  I  could  to  protect  that.    I'm  so  proud 
Massachusetts  -- actually, I said that wrong.  It's   whenever I hear somebody say to me, you must 
Billerica, sorry.                                      have had great parents.  When I hear that, I know 
        I  know  there's  a  huge  crowd  here  today   I'm representing them well.  
from Billerica.  I want to thank you guys for not only         I do have great parents and they took me 
being here today, but I want to thank you guys for   everywhere  I  needed  to  be  for  both  hockey  and 
your  support  throughout  my  career.    I  know  so   baseball.  They never missed a practice or a game.  
many  of  you  put  your  allegiance  for  our  beloved   Oftentimes I hear my dad leaving before the dark 
Red Sox on hold during my career, but I promise   in  the  morning,  so  he  could  get  to  work,  get  his 
you, your secret is safe with me, so thank you very   work done and get home for my game later that 
much.                                                  day.  They were and they are a great team.  
        I   was   blessed   to   have   a   tremendous         People  always  ask  me  where  I  got  my 
support   team   around   me   through   my   career,   qualities from.  My hard work ethic I got from my 
people that helped me to keep things in order and   dad,  and  as  much  as  my  mom  hates  to  hear  it, 
keep  things  in  perspective.    My  agent  and  good   mom, I'm sorry, I got my stubbornness from you.  
friend, Gregg Clifton, was so helpful with his advice          I always marveled how they were able to 
and  his  representation  over  the  years.    Gregg,   get  us  kids  where  they  needed  to  be.   I  can 
thank you so much for all your help and for your   honestly say as a kid I wanted to be a professional 
friendship.                                            athlete.  Red Sox or Bruins, I didn't care.  I loved 
        My  good  friend,  Rose  Cortina  (ph)  and   Bobby Orr, I love Yas, Pudge, Jim Rice. 
Scott  and  Meryl,  who  helped  me  to  be  smart,            But my role models were and always have 
frugally  and  financially,  you  were  so  helpful  in   been my parents, Fred and Millie.  They gave me 
taking my mind off things and help me concentrate   the two best things you could ever ask for as a kid.  
on the game of baseball so thank you for that.         They   gave   me   their   time   and   their   example.  
        I'll piggyback on Greg's comments.   I had   Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, and I've 
three  dear  friends  over  the  years  in  Atlanta  who   always said that if I can be half the parents to my 
helped  keep  me  on  the  field.    Dr. Joe  Chandler,   kids  that  my  parents  were  to  me,  I  would  have 
Joe,  to  this  day,  you  have  to  the  missed  a  spot   been successful.  
when I needed a cortisone shot.  Dave Pursley and              I'm blessed to have had your support and 
Jeff Porter, long-time trainers with the Braves, you   example.  You have been the great influence in my 
spent  countless  hours  taking  care  of  me  and  so   life. I know I made you proud as a baseball player, 
many other guys.                                       and I hope more importantly, hope I've made you 
        I honestly felt bad at times in certain years   even  more  proud  as  a  son  and  father.    To  say 
with the amount of time I would have to spend on   thank you would never be enough but thank you so 
the training room table to try to get ready for my   much  for  your  love  and  support.    Couldn't  have 
next  start,  but  you  were  always  so  patient  and   done this without you guys.  I love you guys.  

                                                                                                                2  
                                         
    visit our archives at asapsports.com 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

        Thanks,  also,  to  my  sister,  dad,  and  my   family the way you did.  Thank you Fred and Jeff 
brothers, Fred and Mike.  You guys have always   Wilpon for the opportunity to play in New York and 
been a great supporting cast.  When you play for   for providing the resources so I could experience a 
20 years, there are a lot of ups and downs, and   post-season there.  
after  all,  I  did  lose  203  games  in  my  career  so      To  the  fans  of  New  York,  thank  you  so 
there were a lot of downs.  You guys were always   much  for  your  support  and  for  ultimately  treating 
there for me whenever I needed it, even if it was as   me and my family with so much respect.  
simple as a phone call.  I love you guys and thank             Playing for Ted Turner was a treat and I 
you for your support.                                  say it was a treat, it was a treat.  Thank you, Ted, 
        I had the opportunity to play for two great   for  providing  the  likes  of  John  Schuerholz,  Stan 
organizations in my career, the Atlanta Braves and   Kasten  and  Bobby  Cox  to  lead  our  organization.  
New York Mets.  I had so many fantastic coaches   Thank you for providing the resources to get the 
and teammates who helped me to get here, many   players    that    enabled    us    to    have    such    an 
of  you  who  are  here  in  attendance  today  and  I   unbelievable run of success.  It was such a thrill 
thank  you  for  your  help  along  the  way  for  being   and  so  much  fun  to  be  a  part  of  putting  Atlanta 
here today.                                            back on the map in the game of baseball.  
        In  the  interest  of  time  I  couldn't  possibly     Your support on and off the field meant so 
thank  everybody  because  if  there's  one  thing  I   much to me and I know there's a ton of you here 
heard from these guys all weekend, it's been hurry   today  and   a   ton   of   you   back   at  Turner   Field 
up.                                                    watching this in Atlanta, as well.  Thank you guys 
        I  had  so  many  great  teammates,  some   so much.  Atlanta has become my home.  I have 
who will be on this stage, as Doggy mentioned, our   so many great friends there now, many of whom 
good friend, Smoltzie better be here next year and   are  you  here  today  and  I'm  truly  grateful  and 
there will be more to come.  I had teammates who   honored for your support and friendship. 
made great plays for me, got big hits, helped to get           My best teammate and best friend of all, 
big outs and guys that were great examples and   though, happens to be my wife, Chris.  In my case, 
guys     that     I     learned     a     ton     from     through   the  saying  behind  every  good  man  is  a  great 
conversation.                                          woman, is definitely true.  
        I  appreciate  all  of  your  help  and  I  thank      As  a  young  player  it's  ease-to  be  selfish 
you for the role you played in helping me to get to   and only worry about yourself and baseball.  Often 
this incredible honor.                                 my sister would call me before spring training if she 
        My  two  long-time  pitching  coaches,  Leo   needed  something  for  a  charity  event  or  auction 
Mazzone,  thank  you  so  much.    When  you  first   that  was  coming  up  during  the  baseball  season 
came to Atlanta with Bobby, and you told me were   and she said, "You know, if I don't call you and bug 
going  to  start  throwing  twice  in  between  starts,  I   you now, once spring training carts, it's going to be 
thought you were crazy because my arm already   impossible," and she was right.  
hurt at that time.  Wasn't really sure what throwing           When  you  get  to  that  point,  it's  all  about 
more was going to do, but boy, did that help.  You   you and it's all about baseball.  Once you have a 
helped   me   to   understand   my   mechanics,   you   wife and a family, all that changes.  It isn't about 
helped  me  become  my  own  pitching  coach,  and   you   anymore.      I   learned   balance   early   in   my 
that ultimately became my goal every game I went   career.  I remember a hockey game as a kid that 
out on the mound was not to have Leo come out   didn't go so well.  And in the car on the way home, 
and visit me at any point in time.                     my  dad  wanted  to  talk  about  the  game.    Didn't 
        Rick Peterson later in my career with the   want  to  criticize  me  but  just  wanted  to  have  a 
Mets, Rick, you helped me to reinvent myself and   conversation.  
make the changes I needed to make for the latter               So after a short time of me being less than 
part of my career, and trust me, when  you  were   pleasant in the conversation because things didn't 
doing something for 16, 17 years, it's not an easy   go  so  well,  my  dad  told  me  something  that  I've 
thing  to  change.    But  you  talked  me  into  it,  you   never  for  got  and,  in  fact,  I've  used  on  my  kids 
convinced me of it and you gave me confident to   today and they will attest to it.  He said:  You're 
do it.  So Leo, thank you so much for your help,   going to go into that locker room with a smile on 
and Rick Peterson, thank you for your help.            your face and you're going to come out with one, 
        To  all  the  folks  associated  with  the  Mets   or I'm not taking you any more." 
organization,  thank  you  for  treating  me  and  my 

                                                                                                               3   
                                         
    visit our archives at asapsports.com 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

        I tried really hard to leave the game at the   a career in baseball, a career that saw lots of ups 
field.  Chris was always great at recognizing when I   and downs, lots of sacrifices on and off the field, 
needed  a  little space,  when I needed some kind   and  more  than  a  few  times  where  I  questioned 
words, and certainly whenever I needed a kick in   what I was doing.  
the butt.                                                      There    are    no    more    questions,    only 
        When you have kids, that balance is really   gratitude towards those who were so helpful along 
tested.  I can't tell you what a luxury it was to be   the    way;    my    family,    friends,    coaches    and 
able   to   leave   for   the   ballpark   totally   freed   up   teammates, and thanks to God for giving me the 
knowing that there was a wonderful mom and the   talent and work ethic and more than a little bit of 
home holding down the fort and getting everybody   stubbornness to see it through.  
where they needed to be.  In reality, our wives are            I'm   humbled   to   be   a   member   of   the 
single moms a lot of time when you factor in travel   National Baseball Hall of Fame.  I'm humbled to be 
and spring training.  To this day, I don't know how   here and thank you all for sharing this day with me.  
Chris   was   able   to   do   everything   with   me   not   Thank you very much. 
around, from school carpools to kids' sports teams,             
everything was always handled perfectly, and that 
made my job so much easier.  
        In addition, I'm so proud of her and what 
she's meant  to  our  community  in  Atlanta.    She's 
helped to raise over $4 million for Cure Childhood 
Cancer, raising money for much needed research.  
She truly is one person making a difference.  As I 
said,  she's  a  great  mom  and  I  couldn't  be  more 
proud of the job she has done raising our children.  
Jonathan,   Amber,   both   in   college   now,   can't 
believe it and doing very well.  
        Peyton,  Mason,  and  of  course  our  little 
guy, Keenan.  I realize the sacrifices all you guys 
have made.  I know it wasn't always easy.  There 
were  a  lot  of  sacrifices,  a  lot  of  missed  things 
throughout the years, but you guys handled it like 
champs.  I'm so proud of you and I love you guys 
so much.  
        Chris, I've been blessed to have you as my 
wife.  You've been my best friend.  You've been my 
rock.    Thank  you  so  much  for  all  your  love  and 
support and for making my job so much easier.  
        And  finally,  people  have  asked  me  a  lot 
since I got the phone call how I thought I  would 
feel   when   induction   day   finally   arrived.      My 
response  has  usually  been,  whatever  I  tell  you 
won't scratch the surface of what I will feel on that 
say.  Safe to say I was right.  To say this day, this 
weekend   was   unbelievable   would   definitely   be 
true.  
        I don't think any of us up here ever thought 
we would become Hall of Famers on the day we 
were drafted.  I do believe that each of us worked 
hard to get the most out of our God-given talent 
and tried to be the very best that we thought we 
could be.  The fact that we are here is a testament 
to that hard work and perseverance.  
        Standing here today as a member of the 
Baseball Hall of Fame is the ultimate recognition of 

                                                                                                               4   
                                         
    visit our archives at asapsports.com 
